# PBDW_IGBT_thermal
This project uses the Parameterized-Background Data-Weak (PBDW) method to recover the thermal field distribution of an IGBT module, based on measured data.

This project is a direct application of the following two papers, where the PBDW method is deduced and applied in various scenarios (acoustic, etc.). In this project, we study the temperature distribution on the surface of an IGBT module.
- doi:10.1002/nme.4747
- doi: 10.1137/18m116544x

**Note**: The data in the folder "./data" is incomplete. Two more data files are required, but they are too large to be uploaded. Besides, this is a project without a license. To prevent any abusive usage of the codes, please contact eegongzhi@zju.edu.cn to unlock the hidden codes and the remaining data files.

## What does the PBDW method do?
The PBDW method is recognized as a _bridge_ between _simulation data_ and _measured data_. The goal of the PBDW method is to recover the field distribution using 1) the snapshots obtained from various FEM simulations, and 2) the measured field value at some (selected) locations.

To achieve that, we first conduct a series of FEM simulations and store the calculated temperature distribution of each FEM run as a snapshot. These simulations should cover as many operational conditions as possible, e.g., under different heat sources, convection coefficients, etc. Next, we build a background space using these snapshots. Then, we select some locations for placing the sensors that generate the measured temperature at the corresponding locations. Using the locations (as well as a little bit of information on the sensors), we generate the update space. Finally, we build the PBDW formula using these two spaces. 

All of these steps above are conducted _offline_. Once we obtain the PBDW formula, we put it _online_. The sensors acquire readings (i.e., the temperature at the corresponding locations), and we put these readings into the right-hand side of the PBDW formula. By solving the formula, we can finally estimate the field distribution over the entire IGBT module. Hence, the connection between simulation data and measured data is accomplished.

In this project, greedy algorithms are used to select the optimal snapshots to construct the background field, as well as to select the optimal sensor locations to construct the update space. However, technically, such algorithms are not compulsory; as long as we can construct these 2 spaces, any algorithm would be good. Therefore, I personally believe that the specific greedy algorithm is _NOT_ a part of the PBDW method.


## Code structure
The project consists of 2 folders, 4 major scripts (each corresponding to a critical step of PBDW), and 4 auxiliary functions.
- Folder **data**: All of the snapshots, generated by FEM simulations, are stored here. In addition, the surface areas of all grids, which are used to calculate inner products, are also stored here.
- Folder **results**: The calculation results generated in each step are stored here.
- Script a1: This script reads the raw snapshot data and organizes it. In particular, it randomly selects a certain portion of the raw data, keeps it _invisible_ to the following PBDW procedures, and finally uses it in the testing procedure in Script a4 to evaluate the accuracy of the PBDW method.
- Script a2: This script selects _N_ snapshots and produces the background space.
- Script a3: This script selects _M_ sensor locations and produces the update space.
- Script a4: This script assembles the PBDW formula, then tests its field recovery accuracy using the _hidden_ data obtained from the Script a1.
- The other .m scripts are utilities for Scripts a1 ~ a4.

## Results
In this project, we run FEM simulations and generate 1271 snapshots. Each snapshot is the temperature field on the outer surface of an IGBT module. By running Script a1, we randomly select 127 snapshots as the _test set_ that is used in Script a4.

Then, we choose _N_ = 6 snapshots from the remaining 1144 snapshots to build the background space. The labels of the selected snapshots, as well as the 1st and the 5th bases of the background space, are illustrated below.





Next, we select locations for _M_ = 20 sensors. Here, for simplicity, we consider _ideal point_ measurement, i.e., each sensor measures the field exactly at that location. However, the scripts can be easily extended to those sensors that measure the field in a close vicinity to the location by changing the parameter "r_m". The locations of selected sensors are illustrated below. In addition, the rising $\beta$ after _M_ > _N_ indicates the good stability of the saddle-point problem.


Finally, we test the PBDW system by using the 127 _hidden_ snapshots. By saying _hidden_, it means that these snapshots do not participate in any previous procedures of building the PBDW system. The results below show good accuracy of the PBDW system.

